>> Brian Holt: Now we wanna make it so
that, I'm not gonna show you the last
part which is, once you request the image,
how does it display?
Cuz I showed you how to do that, and
that's gonna be your project for today,
is the last kinda part.
And then making it styled and look nice.
But I wanna show you what happens,
if someone selects Pekingese,
how to fire that event listener.
>> Brian Holt: So,
>> Brian Holt: Let's actually just move
this out.
So I'm gonna move this const select
out from the function in here.
>> Brian Holt: So I have this select
out here, I have the fetch here.
Then what I'm gonna do down here is
I'm gonna say select.addEventListener.
And what do I wanna listen for
with this particular event listener?
Well it's one that I've shown you before,
but
it's been re-applying it somewhere else,
it's called change.
You're basically listening for
whenever the user changes
that to be something else.
So I'm gonna say change function.
It's gonna take in an event, right?
We've see that before as well.
>> Speaker 2: Can you write e or event?
>> Brian Holt: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: or is it r?
>> Brian Holt: Whatever you wanna call it.
I have to abbreviate
this as e cuz I'm lazy.
And there's lots of people
that will always call that e.
But for clarity sake for you,
I'm putting out events just so
you know that's an event, okay.
And now I have the event, so
I wanna know what the value
is of what's being selected.
So I'll just show you here say
console.log, event.target.value.
>> Brian Holt: So now if I come over here,
>> Brian Holt: And
refresh the page, if I select Akita here,
notice that Akita comes up here,
or if I select Basenji,
Basenji comes up here.
So the event,
this is coming from the Dom, right.
As soon as an event fires on this
particular select, it fires this event.
And the event.target is the select.
You could have just as easily said
select.value here as well, right?
Because the event.target and
the console.log,
select triple equals evet.target.
Notice that that's true, right?
The select is the event.target.
Two separate ways to, I would recommend
doing event.target cuz that's normally how
you're gonna do it, but,
>> Brian Holt: It is the event.target,
let's do that.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
>> Brian Holt: Now anytime this changes,
you're gonna get an event fired off and
now you have what the user
actually selected.
You seeing that come up in your console?
>> Speaker 2: Where did you move this
select for breeds to outside of the-
>> Brian Holt: Just outside of the right?
Just somewhere above the event listener.
>> Brian Holt: Right because if it was
in here, then it would be out of scope.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, now I have this but
what the hell you gonna do with it?
[LAUGH] So,
let's look at the API docs really quick.
Dog API,
>> Brian Holt: And
we're gonna look at the documentation,
and we wanna get a dog image by breed.
Again, I'm reminding you,
ignore the sub-breed stuff for now,
we're just focusing on breeds.
So, there is this API here,
dog API breeds slash hound,
but whatever we put in here, that's what
kind of images we're gonna get back.
So if I just copy that,
put that in my API.
So if I put hound, it's gonna give me
literally every hound image that it has.
Or if I put poodle, it's gonna give
me every poodle image that it has.
Let's go back in here, you can limit
how many pictures it gives you.
This is asking for all, and
I don't actually want all.
I think I just want, I think random works.
Nope, all right,
let's figure out which one I want.
So for example, if you grab this one,
>> Brian Holt: There we go,
so if I put that one,
that's gonna give me a random hound.
If I put poodle here,
it'll give me a random poodle.
If I put bichon there,
it should, or is it frise?
That's what they call them.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, it'll give
you a frise picture right there.
So given that, going back over to my code,
how am I gonna get the correct
breed of what they've selected?
Well, it's probably gonna
look something like this.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so I have cancelled
out log there, and I'm logging out this so
if you just look at what it is right now.
>> Brian Holt: Where is my,
>> Brian Holt: Here we go.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
what do I wanna replace in here?
>> Brian Holt: Spoiler,
it's what I highlighted.
[LAUGH] Well,
you remember template strings, right?
It's the dollar sign curly brace thing,
right?
So I wanna put in there,
event.target.value.
And now if I refresh this,
go over to this one.
Notice low and behold,
there is the correct URL.
>> Brian Holt: Right,
and if I click on that,
it should take me actually
to the correct URL.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: So if you put that,
if you turn that into a variable,
you wouldn't be able use it outside
of the event listener, right?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
which is kind of the point, right?
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Right,
because you want, you're going to,
let's just pseudo code this out.
Like, what are you gonna do
once you get this at URL?
So, make URL, right, that's the first
thing we're gonna do, okay.
Then, we're going to
use the URL to change.
Yeah, fetch right, fetch from the API.
Once you have it from the API,
then you gonna use the URL
to change the current image.
>> Speaker 2: You do wanna do
that all in the event listener?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, you can make
another function that does it too,
that's up to you.
I would probably make
another function to do it
but,
>> Speaker 2: I think I'm just confuse
about scope but then.
So if I turn that,
if I set let URL equal that URL.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, that URL.
So this is gonna be some URL, right?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: Then I'm gonna call here,
getnewdoggo or something like that?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: Then I
would just passing URL.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: And
then I would have a function out
here called, get your doggo and
that takes in a URL, and now I have it.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Make sense?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
>> Brian Holt: So yeah, I guess the other
thing you do here is show loading spinner.
Fetch on the API,
use the API as change the current image,
stop showing loading spinner.
>> Brian Holt: It's basically
the steps you're gonna take.